Welcome to the Chemistry Calculator! In this device you will be able to calculate molar mass, grams of a molecule, moles of a molecule and molarity. To access an operation you must press the button that indicates your desired operation. On the top you will see three buttons that say back help and reset. Back returns to the home page, help brings you to useful instructional information which you just clicked on and reset sets all the text fields in the entire program to null. Below that you will see three columns of operations. The first column you see is the single conversion column. Each one of these operations only requires one molecule. Molar mass calculates the molar mass, moles to grams calculates grams given the amount of moles and grams to moles calculates moles given the amount of grams. The second column you see is the double conversion column. Each one of these operations require two molecules. Moles to grams calculates the amount of grams given the amount of moles and the conversion factor, grams to moles calculates the amount of moles given the amount of moles and the conversion factor, moles to moles calculates the amount of moles given the amount of moles and the conversion factor and grams to grams calculates the amount of grams given the amount of grams and the conversion factor.  The third column you see is the molarity conversion column. Each one of these operations only requires one molecule. Molarity to moles calculates the amount of moles given the molarity and the amount of liters, moles to liters calculates the amount of liters given the amount of moles and the molarity, moles to molarity calculates the molarity given the amount of moles and the amount of liters, molarity to grams calculates the amount of grams given the molarity and the amount of liters, grams to liters calculates the amount of liters given the amount of grams and the molarity and grams to molarity calculates the molarity given the amount of grams and the amount of liters. If you click help while on a specific operation you will receive specific instructions on how to proceed.
This is molar mass. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Press the button "Calculate Molar Mass" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molecule moles to grams. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles of that molecule into the text box that says "Enter Moles." Press the button "Calculate Grams" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molecule grams to moles. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of grams of that molecule into the text box that says "Enter Grams." Press the button "Calculate Moles" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is double molecule moles to grams. Enter the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 1". Enter the second molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 2". To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles of the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Moles." Enter the conversion factor into the two text boxes that follow "Conversion Factor." Both numbers need to be whole numbers. The first text box corresponds to molecule 1 and the second text box corresponds to molecule 2. Press the button "Calculate Grams" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is double molecule grams to moles. Enter the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 1". Enter the second molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 2". To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of grams of the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Grams." Enter the conversion factor into the two text boxes that follow "Conversion Factor." Both numbers need to be whole numbers. The first text box corresponds to molecule 1 and the second text box corresponds to molecule 2. Press the button "Calculate Moles" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is double molecule moles to moles. Enter the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 1". Enter the second molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 2". To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles of the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Moles." Enter the conversion factor into the two text boxes that follow "Conversion Factor." Both numbers need to be whole numbers. The first text box corresponds to molecule 1 and the second text box corresponds to molecule 2. Press the button "Calculate Moles" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is double molecule grams to grams. Enter the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 1". Enter the second molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule 2". To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles of the first molecule into the text box that says "Enter Grams." Enter the conversion factor into the two text boxes that follow "Conversion Factor." Both numbers need to be whole numbers. The first text box corresponds to molecule 1 and the second text box corresponds to molecule 2. Press the button "Calculate Grams" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity molarity to moles. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of liters of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Liters." Enter the molarity of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Molarity." Press the button "Calculate Moles" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity moles to liters. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles in the solution into the text box that says "Enter Moles." Enter the molarity of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Molarity." Press the button "Calculate Liters" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity moles to molarity. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of moles in the solution into the text box that says "Enter Moles." Enter the amount of liters of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Liters." Press the button "Calculate Molarity" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity molarity to grams. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of liters of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Liters." Enter the molarity of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Molarity." Press the button "Calculate Grams" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity grams to liters. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of grams in the solution into the text box that says "Enter Grams." Enter the molarity of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Molarity." Press the button "Calculate Liters" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.
This is single molarity grams to molarity. Enter the molecule into the text box that says "Enter Molecule." To write atoms write their atomic symbol with proper capitalization. If there are multiple of one atom put the number directly after the atomic symbol. Do not use parentheses as that will not work. Enter the amount of grams in the solution into the text box that says "Enter Grams." Enter the amount of liters of the solution into the text box that says "Enter Liters." Press the button "Calculate Molarity" and you will receive your value in the adjacent text box.